warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.11717
Type: PDF
Pattern: every layer and every token|single direction (8 matches in 119442 chars)

--- Content ---

44:Refusal in Language Models
Is Mediated by a Single Direction
Andy Arditi∗
Independent
Oscar Obeso∗
ETH Zürich
Aaquib Syed
University of Maryland
Daniel Paleka
ETH Zürich
Nina Panickssery
Anthropic
Wes Gurnee
MIT
Neel Nanda
Abstract
Conversational large language models are fine-tuned for both instruction-following
and s...
--
702:...ross chat models, its underlying
mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this work, we show that refusal is
mediated by a one-dimensional subspace, across 13 popular open-source chat
models up to 72B parameters in size. Specifically, for each model, we find a
single direction such that erasing this direction from the model’s residual stream
activations prevents it from refusing harmful instructions, while adding this
direction elicits refusal on even harmless instructions. Leveraging this insight, we
propose a novel white-box jail...
--
15335:..., 2024), a widely-used open-source model fine-tuned to accurately detect harmful
content. We prompt this model to classify each model completion as safe (safety_score=1) or
unsafe (safety_score=0). More details are provided in §D.2.
3
Refusal is mediated by a single direction
For each model, we extract a single difference-in-means vector r via the methodology described in
§2.3. We then show that this single direction is both necessary and sufficient for refusal. In §3.1, we
show that ablating this direction ˆr effectively disables the model’s ability to refuse harmful requests.
In §3.2, we show that adding r to the model’s activations induces refusal on harmless instructi...
--
34135:... models is unclear (Meade et al., 2024). Jailbreak prompts may have significant impact on
model performance (Souly et al., 2024), whereas our method does not (§4.3).
7
Discussion
In this work, we demonstrate that refusal behavior is consistently mediated by a single direction
across a diverse set of open-source chat models. Based on this understanding, we propose a simple
yet effective white-box jailbreak method that directly modifies model weights to disable the refusal
mechanism while retaining model coherence. Our work demonstr...
--
35821:...arial example.
Another limitation is that it is difficult to measure the coherence of a chat model, and we consider
each metric used flawed in various ways. We use multiple varied metrics to give a broad view of
coherence. Finally, while our work identifies a single direction that mediates refusal behavior in each
model, we acknowledge that the semantic meaning of these directions remains unclear. Though we
use the term “refusal direction” as a functional description, these directions could represent other
concepts such as “harm” ...
--
37627:...fety techniques is crucial for informing future
policy decisions and research efforts.
Acknowledgments and disclosure of funding
Author contributions.
AA led the research project, and led the writing of the paper. AA discov-
ered and validated that ablating a single direction bypasses refusal, and came up with the weight
orthogonalization trick. OO ran initial experiments identifying that it is possible to jailbreak models
via activation addition. AA and OO implemented and ran all experiments presented in the paper,
with DP helpin...
--
101292:...r instance, if prompted with a question, a base model is likely to output
another question, rather than an answer to the original question. In particular, base models do not
refuse harmful requests.
In §3, we argue that refusal in chat models is mediated by a single direction in activation space. One
natural question is whether this direction, or feature, is learned from scratch during safety fine-tuning
specifically to mediate refusal, or whether this direction is already present in the base model and gets
repurposed, or “hooked ...
