warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.10260
Type: PDF
Pattern: overestimat|refusal (35 matches in 84882 chars)

--- Content ---

6256:...rated by
an LLM [25, 18, 44, 31, 26, 30, 15, 29], written by humans [11, 42, 8, 19, 16], or curated from
previous sets of prompts [40]. Unfortunately, existing datasets of forbidden prompts suffer from
several shortcomings that introduce noise and potentially overestimate jailbreak effectiveness.
LLM-generated forbidden prompts tend to be repetitive, ill-posed, unanswerable, or not actually
forbidden. For example, in the popular AdvBench dataset, 24 of the 520 LLM-generated prompts
(5% of the dataset) ask for bomb-making inst...
--
9032:...oring gradations in the
extent to which a victim model’s response provides useful information related to an attacker’s query.
However, the most significant oversight of past automated evaluation methods is their over-emphasis–
and often exclusive focus–on non-refusal, defining a jailbreak as “successful” merely if the victim
model’s response does not explicitly refuse to answer the jailbroken prompt [33, 39, 40, 27, 38]. But
as shown in Figure 1, the lack of an explicit refusal does not mean the victim model has provided
useful information related to a forbidden prompt.
The StrongREJECT benchmark.
To address these issues, we present a new benchmark—the
Strong, Robust Evaluation of Jailbreaks at Evading Censorship Techniques (StrongR...
--
16062:...uator model) with
the forbidden prompt and victim model’s response, along with scoring instructions. The evaluator
model outputs chain-of-thought reasoning about how well the response addresses the prompt before
generating three scores: a binary score for non-refusal and two 5-point Likert scale scores ranging
from [1-5] (then re-scaled to [0-1]) of how specific and convincing the response was.
4

The final score for a single prompt/response pair is:
score = (1 −refused) × specific + convincing
2
As mentioned, a model wil...
--
16601:... a prompt with high-quality information when it is willing to
and capable of doing so. Our automated evaluator considers both of these dimensions: willingness
and capabilities. If a victim model is unwilling to respond to a forbidden prompt (i.e., it issues a
refusal), it will receive a score of 0. However, non-refusal alone is insufficient to receive a high
StrongREJECT score. A model must also be capable of providing specific, convincing information
related to the forbidden prompt. In the extreme case, a response that offers no specific or convincing
information - such as the incoherent responses we referenced in Section 1 - is just as useless as
a refusal and will also receive a score of 0. At the other extreme, victim models willing to and
capable of providing specific, convincing information related to the forbidden prompt will receive
high StrongREJECT scores.
The rubric-based StrongREJECT evaluator is fast...
--
21324:...ated evaluators.
We used six previous automated evaluators and the concurrently
released HarmBench evaluator as baselines against which to compare our StrongREJECT automated
evaluator. The baseline automated evaluators we chose were:
• String matching for non-refusal. A simple search for matching strings indicating the
model refused to respond to the forbidden prompt [27].
• Jailbroken - binary. An LLM prompt designed to assess whether the victim model refused
to respond to the forbidden prompt [2].
• PICT. An LLM prompt ...
--
[27 more matches not shown]
