# grep https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.16369  pattern=/refusal keyword|string matching|false positive|Ensemble Evaluation|refusal matching/  accessed 2026-09-24
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.16369
Type: PDF
Pattern: refusal keyword|string matching|false positive|Ensemble Evaluation|refusal matching (39 matches in 93304 chars)

--- Content ---

6920:...hout the response. To overcome this
limitation we propose to take advantage of both
suppressing refusal and eliciting affirmative with
cosine decay to build stronger jailbreak attack.
Previous attempts have explored suppressing re-
fusal (Wei et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2024), ei-
ther by enforcing refusal keywords via prompt-
ing or during the decoding phase. Although these
methods can theoretically combine with learning-
based jailbreak methods, empirically they do not
work. Modifying the decoding stage alters the
model’s internal architecture, which is unrealistic
in real-world scenario, while enforcing n...
--
10729:...er categories exhibit various limitations
in practical usage, including weaker jailbreak ca-
pabilities, extra inference time, and real-world sce-
narios deployment challenges. More detailed dis-
cussion is relegated to Appendix A.1.
Jailbreak evaluation. The primarily employed
evaluation method is Refusal Matching, which
checks whether the initial segments of the re-
sponse contain pre-defined refusal sub-strings.
Other methods typically involve constructing a bi-
nary classifier or directly querying other LLMs,
aiming to determine whether LLM generates
harmful content (Huang et al., 2023; Mazeika
et al., 20...
--
14165:...on 3), originally introduced in
language model training stage to direct language
model outputs from unwanted content.
LCE(p, q) = −
X
i
pi log(qi)
(2)
LUn(p, q) = −
X
i
pi log(1 −qi)
(3)
Objective. The object of refusal suppression is
achieved by minimizing the probability of tokens
in a predefined refusal keyword list (RKL = {"as
an", "sorry, I cannot", ...} detailed in Appendix
A.2.3). Each refusal keyword’s token length is
RTL. Loss function utilized for suppressing refusal
response using Unlikelihood loss can be stated as
below, with H as the max response length.
Lrefusal(x1:n) =
X
y∈RKL
n+H−RTL(y)
X
i=n+1
LUn(y, xi:i+RTL(y))
(4)
3.2
DSN: Elicit Affirmative Response
Intuition. The second objective ...
--
17524:...ation study and demonstrate its universal-
ity and transferability from Section 4.3 to Section
4.7. Last, we compare DSN with a broader range
of existing jailbreak methods in Section 4.6.

Figure 3: Loss vs. ASR of the last step suffixes, optimized by GCG loss LGCG and DSN loss LDSN, evaluated with
Refusal Matching and HarmBench.
4.1
Configuration
Target model and datasets. We conduct exten-
sive experiments upon a wide variety of models
and datasets. For the target models, we choose
multiple open-source models with varying de-
gree of alignment, including Llama families, Vi-
cuna family, Mistral family, Qwen...
--
18362:...ther details
in Appendix A.3.2 and A.3.3.
Evaluation procedure and metrics. To ensure
a trustworthy evaluation, we adopt the widely
used HarmBench classifier (Mazeika et al., 2024),
which is a binary classifier on the harmfulness
of the response. We also include the refusal
string/keyword matching (Refusal Matching for
short) results where an attack is deemed success-
ful if the initial fixed-length segments of the model
response do not contain pre-defined refusal strings
(e.g. "Sorry", "I cannot"). We employ the standard
Attack Success Rate (ASR) metric to showcase the
superiority of our proposed methods, wh...
--
22782:...e baseline on Llama2 across all
metrics. For other jailbreak susceptible models,
both methods achieve nearly 100% ASR. ASR
differences between metrics mainly occur in sus-
ceptible models, where responses may typically
initiate answering but end with disclaimers (e.g.,
"However, it is illegal..."). Refusal Matching clas-
sifies these as failures, while HarmBench provides
a more nuanced assessment. Please refer to Figure
13 in Appendix A.1.3 for one concrete example.
Attack results on JailbreakBench. Jailbreak-
Bench provides another reproducible, extensible
and accessible benchmark for jailbreak attacks, us-
...
--
57862:...ient-based search will be
detailed step by step. To be specifically, the Cosine
Decay weighting schedule and the refusal suppres-
sion mechanism are both integrated into the LDSN
loss function, which serves as the optimization tar-
get, guiding the learning process of our proposed
DSN method.
A.2.2
Ensemble Evaluation
In Table 7, we list widely-applied evaluation met-
rics, summarizing their advantages and disadvan-
tages. To enhance the reliability of evaluation, we
propose an Ensemble Evaluation framework. In
this subsection, we first discuss the limitations of
the Refusal Matching metric and then provide a
detailed explanation of the natural language in-
ference (NLI) contradiction evaluation algorithm,
which serves as a method for detecting jailbreak
responses. Then we introduce the Ensemble Eval-
uation pipeline.
Refusal Matching. The Refusal Matching algo-
rithm detects w...
--
[29 more matches not shown]
