# grep https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.02235  pattern=/agreement|kappa|80%|60%|script|overtrust/  accessed 2026-09-24
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.02235
Type: PDF
Pattern: agreement|kappa|80%|60%|script|overtrust (44 matches in 110114 chars)

--- Content ---

1434:...ce languages across a diverse
set of tasks. Out of 650 papers mentioning
LLM-as-a-judge, only 33 of them focus on low-
resource or multilingual settings. Our in-depth
analysis of these papers indicates inconsistent
evaluation outcomes, a tendency to overtrust
LLM judgments in multilingual settings, and
the widespread reliance on a single judge model
per study. To help the NLP community further,
we conclude with a checklist of recommenda-
tions about how to use LLM-as-a-Judge in mul-
tilingual and low-res...
--
5020:...ncy or
inadequate understanding of outputs expressed in
low-resource languages, and (3) the widespread
reliance on a single judge for evaluation, with-
out considering multi-judge or ensemble-based as-
sessment. At the same time, (4) the tendency to
overtrust LLM judgments across settings;1 clashes
with (5) the extremely high requirements for relia-
bility when evaluating high-risk outputs involving
safety, fairness, or cultural biases.
Previous work on multilingual LLM-as-a-Judge
shows that judgment con...
--
6116:...e on single general-purpose judges). Our pa-
per addresses this gap in the literature through a sys-
tematic survey of 33 in-scope papers retrieved from
multilingual and low-resource LLM-as-a-Judge
search criteria, analyzing how judges are deployed
1Overtrusting LLM judgments becomes particularly insid-
ious when what is judged are human-generated outputs and
annotations. For example, Belay et al. (2026) use LLM-as-
a-Judge to audit the quality of human translation for LRLs
even though related work shows...
--
7059:...xicity; in-
struction following; QA/reasoning; RAG;
other
Judge model
Closed-source;
open-source;
specialized/trained-as-judge
Language cover-
age
Monolingual; moderately multilingual (2–
10); massively multilingual (10+)
Judge evaluation
Human/gold agreement; internal consis-
tency/robustness; no direct evaluation
Table 1: Summary of the five dimensions used in our
taxonomy. Figure 1 provides the full paper-level break-
down.
and validated across languages, tasks, and model
families, and offering recomm...
--
7825:... was introduced by
Zheng et al. (2023), who proposed MT-Bench and
Chatbot Arena to evaluate chatbot alignment with
human judgments. Their findings (based on evalua-
tion in English) show that frontier LLMs (e.g., GPT-
4) match human judgment at over 80% agreement.
They also identified key failure modes such as posi-
tion bias (sensitivity to the order in which candidate
responses are presented), verbosity bias (preference
for longer responses regardless of quality), and self-
enhancement bias (tendency of a ...
--
23201:...t al. (2025); Okewunmi et al. (2025); Rolshoven et al. (2025)
Massively multilingual (10+ languages). Marchisio et al. (2024); Devine (2024); Fu and Liu (2025); Kocmi et al. (2025);
Sitaram et al. (2025); Thakur et al. (2025)
Evaluation of the Judge
Agreement with human/gold labels (correlation or agreement metrics with human/gold-label references for at least one
language). Forde et al. (2024); Hada et al. (2024b,a); Marchisio et al. (2024); Raju et al. (2024); Dinh et al. (2024); Gupta et al.
(2024); Liu et al. (2024b); Mendonca et al. (2024); Qian e...
--
31890:...thin our corpus
and outside it) indicates that judge reliability is
language-conditional rather than uniform. Among
the papers that test judges directly in low-resource
languages, this finding is consistent. Watts et al.
(2024) report that human-LLM agreement drops
for direct assessment, particularly for Bengali and
Odia. Fu and Liu (2025) report an average Fleiss’
Kappa of approximately 0.3 across 25 languages,
with consistency being particularly poor in low-
resource languages, and find that neither multilin-
gual training nor model scale directly improves this
result. Studying GPT-4 as an evaluator across nine
languages, Hada et al. (2024b) document a bias
toward higher scores when human opinions differ
and it is most pronounced in lower-resource and
non-Latin-script languages.
Therefore, the problem is not that validation is
rare. It is rather the case that validation is often
skipped for low-resource languages. In these cases,
it is not clear that the LLM-as-a-Judge evaluation
can be trusted without human vali...
--
33183:... with
humans takes a lot of time, requires effort and re-
sources (e.g., recruiting and training qualified and
representative/suitable annotators, collecting multi-
ple annotations per items for a task in a language,
identifying and understanding disagreements be-
tween annotators, making decisions about how the
annotations are aggregated and used for evaluation).
Therefore, it could be tempting to ignore many of
these difficulties with human judgements and opt
for LLMs which seem faster and cheaper. How...
--
36763:...annotations, there is a
need to carefully consider which existing metrics
can actually be replaced by LLM judges, and which
ones should still be used alongside them. This de-
pends highly on the competence of the LLM on the
target language and their agreement with human
judgment. For instance, traditional metrics (e.g,
Exact Match and F1-score) in question answering
may prefer short answers while LLM generations
are generally more verbose. LLM-as-a-Judge has
been shown to provide better and more flexible...
--
40550:...herefore, human validation remains
essential, especially for low-resource languages,
where judge reliability cannot be assumed by de-
fault. Ideally, studies should validate LLM judges
on a representative subset of target-language exam-
ples, report agreement with human or gold-label
references, and clearly document the limitations
of automatic judgments. If this is not done, the
ease and ubiquity of LLM-as-a-Judge evaluation
may become its own downfall. Although there is
an increase in multilingual NLP ...
--
58921:...th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages
6282–6293, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Amr Keleg, Walid Magdy, and Sharon Goldwater. 2024.
Estimating the level of dialectness predicts inter-
annotator agreement in multi-dialect Arabic datasets.
In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2:
Short Papers), pages 778–789, Bangkok, Thailand.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Tom Kocmi, Sweta Agra...
--
74347:...ges 965–982, St. Julian’s,
Malta. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ishaan Watts, Varun Gumma, Aditya Yadavalli, Vivek
Seshadri, Manohar Swaminathan, and Sunayana
Sitaram. 2024.
PARIKSHA: A large-scale inves-
tigation of human-LLM evaluator agreement on mul-
tilingual and multi-cultural data. In Proceedings of
the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing, pages 7900–7932, Miami,
Florida, USA. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Linda Wiechetek, Flammie A Pir...
--
85781:...l. (2024a)
MD
Summarization (XL-Sum)
English, French, Chinese, Hindi, Arabic, Bengali, Russian, Turkish, Japanese,
Swahili
Liu et al. (2024b)
MD
Conversational Tutoring Systems (CTS), specifically for L2 (Second
Language) learning through an image description task
English–Chinese, English–Korean
Marchisio et al. (2024)
PC
MMLU, Math reasoning (MGSM), machine translation (Flores), lan-
guage confusion, Aya evaluation (QA)
22 languages (Arabic, Czech, German, English, Spanish, Greek, Persian,
French, Hi...
--
92702:...T-4’s judgments are clustered by
numerical rating and GPT-4 is then asked
to summarise its own justification texts
for each score level. No numeric consis-
tency statistic is reported.
The consistency analysis is explicitly qualitative and yields
no agreement figure; the authors conclude that “the justifica-
tions are reasonably consistent across models and categories,
indicating an acceptable level of impartiality.” The quanti-
tative reliability claim is inherited from English MT-Bench,
where GPT-4 is ...
--
94420:...ndall’s W is reported only
as an aggregate over the whole dataset, with no per-language
breakdown.
Dinh et al. (2024)
Mixtral, Llama-3, GPT-4V
mixed
human
all
Comparison against grades assigned by
human expert graders (Pearson correla-
tion).
Strong agreement overall: 0.948 Pearson correlation with
expert grades, which the authors consider reliable enough to
replace human experts in future evaluations. The correlation
with expert grades is reported pooled over both languages.
Forde et al. (2024)
GPT-4
cl...
--
95853:... is established
Reported reliability, and what it shows about languages
Hada et al. (2024b)
GPT-4
closed
human
all
Calibration against human judgements:
IAA (3 annotators ) and GPT.
LM-based evaluators may perform worse on low-resource
and non-Latin script languages. But it’s mostly consistent for
high-resource languages.
Hada et al. (2024a)
GPT-3.5, GPT-4, PaLM2
closed
human
all
They measured the pairwise agreement
between the LLM evaluators and human
aggregate scores per language and met-
ric. For “human scores”, they average the
pairwise F1 scores of all the annotators.
Human have better score, GPT-4 with detailed instructions
comes closest to human evaluati...
--
96603:...b)
GPT-4,Gpt-3,5, Llama, Mistral
mixed
human
all
The judge’s performance is benchmarked
against human experts.
Reliability is
measured by comparing the judge’s pre-
dictions to the labels provided by human
experts using Accuracy and F1-score.
Strong agreement with expert human annotations (higher
agreement for Chinese–English than Korean–English).
Marchisio et al. (2024)
GPT-4
closed
human
subset
They used human evaluation to confirm
LLM-as-a-judge, they claim it paints a
similar picture. Humans used a 5-point
Likert scale, then express a preference
(...
--
99597:...aluated with
LLM judges) are ranked by winrate and
ELO, this is further broken down by user
prompt topic and language. The rank-
ings produced by the four LLM evalu-
ator judges are compared on Spearman
correlation coefficient, Model separabil-
ity, Agreement with Confidence Interval,
Brier Score.
Worse chatbot separability (84.44% vs 100%) than Chat-
botArena, which uses human judges only; roughly on-par
(slightly better) chatbot separability with/than ArenaHard
v0.1 (80%) and AlpacaEval v2.0 LC (73.33%), which use
LLM judges; much better alignment with ChatbotArena than
ArenaHard or AlpacaEval, both in terms of “Agreement with
CI” and Spearman; evaluation prompt was engineered / ad-
justed from Zheng et al., trying ...
--
[19 more matches not shown]
