# grep https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.02235  pattern=/[0-9]{2}%|correlat|human validation|reliab|single judge/  accessed 2026-09-24
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.02235
Type: PDF
Pattern: [0-9]{2}%|correlat|human validation|reliab|single judge (112 matches in 110114 chars)

--- Content ---

723:...ill University, ✠Canada CIFAR AI Chair
as.dogruoz@ugent.be
Abstract
LLM-as-a-Judge has become the dominant
evaluation paradigm for many natural language
generation tasks (albeit mostly in English) due
to shortcomings of conventional metrics and
high correlations with human judgment. There
are now attempts to extend LLM-as-a-Judge
to multilingual settings including low-resource
languages. However, LLMs have limited pro-
ficiency in low-resource languages, and there
is often no adequate human validation in these
settings. To highlight the scope of the prob-
lem and current practices, we explore the use
of LLM-as-a-Judge evaluators in ACL Anthol-
ogy papers focusing on multilingual settings
and low-resource languages across a diverse
set of tasks. O...
--
1517:...udge, only 33 of them focus on low-
resource or multilingual settings. Our in-depth
analysis of these papers indicates inconsistent
evaluation outcomes, a tendency to overtrust
LLM judgments in multilingual settings, and
the widespread reliance on a single judge model
per study. To help the NLP community further,
we conclude with a checklist of recommenda-
tions about how to use LLM-as-a-Judge in mul-
tilingual and low-resource settings.
1
Introduction
Until recently, evaluation in Natural Language Pro-
cessing (NLP) systems has mainly been performed
by humans, with advantages (e.g., reliability, faith-
fulness, interpretability, quality control) and dis-
advantages like time-consuming procedures and
financial costs (Muhammad et al., 2025; Hellwig
et al., 2025; Wiechetek et al., 2025; Rouzegar and
Makrehchi, 2024, inter alia).
Large la...
--
3133:...tputs
and judgments.
While human experts are still the upper bound
for overall evaluation quality and trust, LLM-as-
a-Judge is considered to be easier, cheaper and
faster to scale. However, there is limited research
about whether LLM judges deliver reliable and
trustworthy evaluations that correlate strongly with
human judges. These questions have previously
been raised by Zheng et al. (2023), who also coined
the term LLM-as-a-Judge, and subsequently by
Chen et al. (2024b) and Bavaresco et al. (2025),
inter alia. While some of these studies observe
high correlations between LLM and human judges,
their focus is limited to English.
Nevertheless, the current trend of using LLM-
as-a-Judge has been extended and scaled to lan-
guages other than English, including low-resource
languages (LRLs). Although some studies have
highlighted low reliability in such settings (Hada
et al., 2024a,b), LLM-as-a-Judge is becoming a
mainstream evaluation method due to (1) its per-
ceived high correlation with human judgments
arXiv:2607.02235v2  [cs.CL]  7 Sep 2026

(which is often only validated for a small num-
ber of languages); (2) fast and cheap evaluation;
and (3) limitations and biases of traditional metrics,
especially ones that are refere...
--
4887:... with performance often overestimated
for low-resource languages, (2) inaccurate perfor-
mance estimation due to the limited proficiency or
inadequate understanding of outputs expressed in
low-resource languages, and (3) the widespread
reliance on a single judge for evaluation, with-
out considering multi-judge or ensemble-based as-
sessment. At the same time, (4) the tendency to
overtrust LLM judgments across settings;1 clashes
with (5) the extremely high requirements for relia-
bility when evaluating high-risk outputs involving
safety, fairness, or cultural biases.
Previous work on multilingual LLM-as-a-Judge
shows that judgment consistency is particularly
weak for low-resource languages, raising concerns
that LLM judges may be less reliable in the lower-
resource settings where automatic evaluation is es-
pecially tempting due to the scarcity of expert an-
notators (Fu and Liu, 2025; Akinode et al., 2026).
Yet, we lack a systematic analysis about to what ex-
tent current multilingual and low-resource uses of
LLM-as-a-Judge are reliable (i.e., whether judges
are validated in the target languages, whether
low-resource languages receive direct human or
gold-label checks, and whether studies avoid over-
reliance on single general-purpose judges). Our pa-
per addresses this gap in th...
--
6386:...gments becomes particularly insid-
ious when what is judged are human-generated outputs and
annotations. For example, Belay et al. (2026) use LLM-as-
a-Judge to audit the quality of human translation for LRLs
even though related work shows this is unreliable without in-
context learning examples (Li et al., 2025c). Similarly, Cheng
et al. (2026) find that, in difficult social scenarios, humans
trust LLMs that evaluate their own stances favourably, even
when they are clearly in the wrong.
Dimension
Cat...
--
7337:...tency/robustness; no direct evaluation
Table 1: Summary of the five dimensions used in our
taxonomy. Figure 1 provides the full paper-level break-
down.
and validated across languages, tasks, and model
families, and offering recommendations for more
reliable cross-lingual evaluation. Table 1 provides
a compact preview of the five dimensions we used
to characterize the surveyed papers. A detailed
paper-level breakdown is provided in Figure 1.
2
Related Work
The LLM-as-a-Judge paradigm was introduced by
Zheng et al. (2023), who proposed MT-Bench and
Chatbot Arena to evaluate chatbot alignment with
human judgments. Their findings (based on evalua-
tion in English) show that frontier LLMs (e.g., GPT-
4) match human judgment at over 80% agreement.
They also identified key failure modes such as posi-
tion bias (sensitivity to the order in which candidate
responses are presented), verbosity bias (preference
for longer responses regardless of quality), and self-
enhancement bias (tend...
--
8338:...model to favor its
own outputs).
Building on this foundation, several surveys
have since synthesized the growing body of work
on LLM-based evaluation across NLP tasks. For
example, Gu et al. (2024) provide a comprehensive
overview about how to build reliable LLM-as-a-
Judge systems, covering bias mitigation, consis-
tency improvement, and prompt design strategies
and Li et al. (2024) analyze the LLMs-as-judges
paradigm from five perspectives (e.g., function-
ality, methodology, application, meta-evaluation,
and limitations) Similarly, Li et al. (2025a) or-
ganize the literature around LLM-as-a-Judge in
three dimensions: what to judge (quality attributes
such as helpfulness, safety, and reliability), how to
judge (tuning and prompting strategies), and how
to benchmark LLM judges (categorizing bench-

marks for LLM-as-a-Judge across general perfor-
mance, bias quantification, challenging tasks, and
domain-specific settings). However, these...
--
9290:...surveys
focus mostly on English without systematically
addressing LLM-as-a-Judge in multilingual or low-
resource settings.
Alongside these surveys, a number of empirical
studies and position papers have raised important
caveats about the paradigm’s reliability. Bavaresco
et al. (2025) conduct a large-scale empirical study
across 20 NLP tasks and find that LLM judges show
substantial variability across tasks and datasets,
cautioning that they should be carefully validated
before deployment. Chehbouni et al. (2025) ar-
gue that LLM-as-a-Judge has been widely adopted
before its validity and reliability as an evaluation
method have been thoroughly examined.
Although recent benchmarks such as MM-Eval
(Son et al., 2024) quantify cross-lingual judge re-
liability, no prior study has surveyed the research
landscape of LLM-as-a-Judge specifically i...
--
10949:... pa-
per, we focus on the first meaning and only ana-
lyze LLM-as-evaluator settings because evaluator-
oriented uses introduce an additional layer of meta-
evaluation. The LLM is used to assess outputs
produced by another system or process, and the
reliability of the judge directly affects conclusions
concerning that system. Therefore, we focus on
the validity and reliability of LLMs in the evaluator
role, while annotation-oriented use cases are closer
to standard labeling or classification settings.
Literature Search Methodology
We conducted
a keyword-based search over metadata from the
ACL Anthology (Bollmann et a...
--
15932:...e papers.
4The string “LLM” appeared only as part of the cited name
that did not use LLMs.
Finally, two papers explicitly avoid LLM-as-a-
Judge evaluation in favor of objective evaluation,
citing self-enhancement bias (Dussolle et al., 2025)
and low reliability in low-resource languages (Song
et al., 2025) as reasons.
4
LLM-as-a-Judge in Multilingual
Research
We analyze the 33 in-scope papers along five di-
mensions (i.e., judging paradigm, downstream task,
judge model, language coverage, and judge ev...
--
23235:...5); Rolshoven et al. (2025)
Massively multilingual (10+ languages). Marchisio et al. (2024); Devine (2024); Fu and Liu (2025); Kocmi et al. (2025);
Sitaram et al. (2025); Thakur et al. (2025)
Evaluation of the Judge
Agreement with human/gold labels (correlation or agreement metrics with human/gold-label references for at least one
language). Forde et al. (2024); Hada et al. (2024b,a); Marchisio et al. (2024); Raju et al. (2024); Dinh et al. (2024); Gupta et al.
(2024); Liu et al. (2024b); Mendonca et al...
--
24560:... human-produced outputs) in multilingual settings. Papers are organized along five dimensions: Judging
Paradigm (how the judge scores), Downstream NLP Tasks, Judge LLMs (model families used), Language
Coverage, and Evaluation of the Judge (how judge reliability is assessed). A paper may appear in multiple
categories.

judge models. Generalist judges include closed-
source models (e.g., GPT, Gemini, and Claude),
as well as open-source models from families (e.g.,
Llama and Qwen). Specialized judges (e.g...
--
25594:...Broad multilin-
gual coverage in the surveyed literature does not
necessarily indicate a focus on low-resource lan-
guages. We classify languages using Joshi et al.
(2020)’s taxonomy, treating its Class 0–3 as low-
resource.5 Among the 19/33 papers (58%) that
include at least one low-resource language, cov-
erage is still often skewed toward higher-resource
ones. For example, Sitaram et al. (2025) cover 37
languages, Kocmi et al. (2025) 30, and Fu and Liu
(2025) 25. However, only 36–47% of these la...
--
[87 more matches not shown]
