# grep https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.30856  pattern=/partial|taxonomy|evasive|comply/  accessed 2026-09-24
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.30856
Type: PDF
Pattern: partial|taxonomy|evasive|comply (47 matches in 112518 chars)

--- Content ---

48:You Shouldn’t Have Asked: A Pragmatics-Inspired Taxonomy for
Evaluating LLM Refusals
Ruoxuan Li1,*
Pinqiao Wang2,*
Sheng Li2
Cameron Robert Jones1,†
1Stony Brook University
2University of Virginia
*Equal contribution. †Corresponding author.
Correspondence: cameron.jones@stonybrook.edu
Abstract
Refusals are often treated as face-threatening
acts in pragma...
--
898:...his interac-
tional cost properly. While existing work has
mainly approached LLM non-compliance as
a safety-alignment outcome, it does not pro-
vide a way to evaluate whether LLMs refuse
appropriately across different harmful contexts.
To study this question, we propose (to our
knowledge) the first taxonomy of LLM re-
fusals that is grounded in pragmatic theory.
Applying this taxonomy to responses from 16
modern LLMs across 14 harm categories, we
find that although models differ in how they
refuse, their refusals are overall explicit and
strongly morally evaluative, with interactional
repair occurring mainly through offering or
providing safer alternatives instead of interper-
s...
--
2089:...emonstrate ex-
ceptional instruction-following abilities (Brown
et al., 2020; Ouyang et al., 2022), but this behav-
ior can create safety risks if user requests contain
inappropriate content or are malicious (Ji et al.,
2023; Xie et al., 2025). A growing body of work
focuses on training LLMs not to comply in po-
tentially harmful cases while preserving helpful-
ness for most users (Bai et al., 2022; Yuan et al.,
2025a,b).
However, LLM non-compliance is interaction-
ally complex. Models can fail to comply in various
different ways: for instance, they can refuse out-
right, or silently reinterpret the user’s request as
a harmless one. They can apologize and blame
their guidelines for being unable to comply, or they
can moralize and blame the user for having made
such an unethical request. These different ways of
realizing non-compliance might have far-reaching
consequences for how users respond to refusals,
how they see the model and their relationship to it,
and the kinds of requests they make to it...
--
5234:...agmatic taxon-
omy of LLM non-compliance that separately
captures response action (Layer 0), refusal
rationale (Layer 1), and realization strategy
with adjunct features (Layer 2), grounded in
theories of human refusal. We release the tax-
onomy (with all code and data) on GitHub.
2. We validate the taxonomy through human an-
notation of 100 query–response pairs, achiev-
ing perfect inter-coder agreement on Layers 0
and 1 (κ = 1.0) and high agreement on
Layer 2 features (average κ = 0.953). We fur-
ther validate an LLM-as-judge pipeline that fa-
cilitates scaling annotation to larger datasets.
3. We co...
--
8852:...cott and
Lyman, 1968; Weiner, 1995). Finally, refusals can
enact stance by evaluating the requested action,
positioning the speaker in relation to it, and align-
ing or disaligning with the hearer (Du Bois, 2007).
These dimensions–face, preference organization,
responsibility, and stance–ground the taxonomy we
develop in Section 3.

Layer / type
Category
Functional definition
Layer 0
Action
Full compliance
The response fully delivers the user’s requested task-conforming output.
Partial compliance
The response delivers a recognizable part of the user’s requested task-conforming output, but does
not complete the full requested task.
Non-compliance
The response does not deliver the user’s requested task-conforming output.
Layer 1
Rationale / reason
Bare non-compliance
The response i...
--
13095:...es the
requested action. A non-action-negating marker expresses internal reluctance, discomfort, or inability without directly negating
the requested action.
♦Layer 2 realization strategies are mutually exclusive.
◦Layer 2 adjunct features may co-occur.
Table 1: Overview of the proposed three-layer taxonomy for LLM non-compliance. Layer 0 is assigned to all
responses. Layers 1 and 2 are assigned only when Layer 0 is coded as Non-compliance.
2.3
Non-Compliance in Human-AI
Interaction
Human-AI interaction research shows that conver-
sational style can shape users’ emotional responses
(Chin et al., 2020)...
--
14520:...ests to evade rules re-
gardless of whether those rules are just, unjust, or
absurd (Pattison et al., 2026). Together, these find-
ings suggest that LLM non-compliance is not only
a safety behavior, but also a user-facing pragmatic
behavior whose realization strategies matter for
user experience.
3
Taxonomy
We propose a three-layer taxonomy for analyzing
LLM non-compliance (see Table 1). We developed
the taxonomy through an iterative process that be-
gan with pragmatic accounts of human refusal, in-

cluding direct and indirect refusal strategies and ad-
juncts such as apologies, hedges, explanations, and
alternatives (Beebe et al., 1...
--
[35 more matches not shown]
