# grep https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.01322  pattern=/judge|native speaker|agreement|kappa|annotat/  accessed 2026-09-24
warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.01322
Type: PDF
Pattern: judge|native speaker|agreement|kappa|annotat (140 matches in 94444 chars)

--- Content ---

1362:...pt evasiveness on model safety.
Across closed and open models, prompting in
African languages reduces refusal relative to
English, with culturally adapted prompts lead-
ing to least refusal. The evaluation also surfaces
two structural limitations: model comprehen-
sion failures and reduced LLM-as-a-judge reli-
ability in LRLs. To capture the first, we intro-
duce Deflection alongside Refused and Jailbro-
ken; to assess the second, we validate outputs
with human annotations, showing that judge-
human agreement drops in lower-resource lan-
guages and less commonly supported scripts.
1
Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved
strong performance across a wide range of NLP
tasks, yet their deployment in real-world settings
depends critically on their safety behavior (Ouyang
et al., 2022; Bengi...
--
3295:...uce TUKABENCH, a jail-
breaking benchmark for seven African languages
that extends JailbreakBench (JBB) (Chao et al.,
2024), the widely used benchmark of 100 harmful
and 100 benign English prompts for evaluating the
susceptibility of LLMs to jailbreak attacks, with re-
sponses assessed via LLM-as-a-judge (Zheng et al.,
2023). Rather than relying on direct translation, we
construct TUKABENCH through four complemen-
tary settings designed to capture both linguistic and
cultural dimensions of safety: (1) Human trans-
lation of JBB harmful and benign prompts into
the target African languages; (2) Engli...
--
4013:...ed entities and references; (3) Human
curated prompts validated through interaction
with GPT-5.2 to filter out easily detectable pat-
terns and produce more challenging adversarial in-
puts; and (4) Code-switched prompts combining
African languages with English.
Evaluating models within an LLM-as-a-judge
framework, we find that African-language prompts
reduce refusal relative to English, and that cul-
turally adapted prompts result in the least refusal
1
arXiv:2606.01322v2  [cs.CL]  22 Sep 2026

of harmful prompts. This suggests that cultural
grounding shapes model vulnerability beyond lan-
guage resource level alone. The evaluation also
exposes two structural limitations of current safety
assessment in low-resource settings: limited lan-
guage understanding in the models themselves, and
reduced reliability of LLM-as-a-judge methods for
LRLs (Hada et al., 2024b,a). To keep the analysis
grounded, we restrict our evaluation to the more
resourced African languages, leaving extremely
low-resource cases outside the present scope.
To mitigate the impact of these limitations, we
validate a subset of model outputs through huma...
--
12527:...gn set serves a dual purpose: measuring
over-refusal and surfacing comprehension failures,
since refusal on benign inputs can indicate that the
model failed to understand the prompt rather than
making an appropriate safety judgment.
Afri-JBB-Culture.
A culturally adapted version
of JBB-Harmful. Two native speakers first adapt
the English sentences to African contexts by intro-
ducing culturally relevant named entities. Since
the original JBB prompts contain relatively few
named entities, the adapted versions are typically
richer and not directly equivalent to their source.
The adapted English prompts are th...
--
13665:...lish prompts
were authored by human data collectors based in
Nigeria, where three of our target languages are
spoken. GPT-5.2 did not author these prompts; it
was used only as a construction-time filter to re-
3

move prompts that it trivially refused, retaining
more challenging adversarial inputs. Annotators
were deliberately not exposed to JBB during this
process to avoid stylistic anchoring.
The retained prompts were subsequently trans-
lated and culturally localized by native speakers
of each target language. During this stage, annota-
tors adapted named entities, locations, institutions,
and other contextual references where appropri-
ate, including adaptation for East and Southern
African contexts. Thus, although the initial En-
glish prompts were collected in Nigeria, the fi...
--
16460:...kes the source text and its translation as input
and outputs a score between 0 and 1, where higher
scores indicate better translation quality. We flag
translations with scores below 0.50 as LOW, scores
from 0.50 to 0.64 as MEDIUM, and scores of 0.65
or above as HIGH. These flags are surfaced in the
annotation interface to help post-editors prioritize
their effort. We make use of HumanSignal platform
for annotation.
Human Post-Editing and Cultural Adaptation.
Two translators per language correct machine trans-
lation errors and explicitly log the types of er-
rors encountered. For Afri-JBB-Harm and Afri-
JBB-Benign, post-editors produce faithful transla-
tions that preserve the original Western context and...
--
[128 more matches not shown]
