warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.11717v3
Type: PDF
Pattern: weight orthogonalization|every matrix|W_{out}|matrices that write (13 matches in 119442 chars)

--- Content ---

17032:...is intervention in place, we generate model completions over 100 randomly sampled harmless
instructions from ALPACA.
Results are shown in Figure 3. Under no intervention, chat models typically do not refuse harmless
instructions. Adding r to the model’s residual stream activations, labeled as activation addition,
results in the model refusing even harmless requests.
5

4
A white-box jailbreak via weight orthogonalization
In this section, we propose a novel white-box jailbreak method through weight orthogonalization.
This technique directly modifies model weights to eliminate the representation of the refusal direction,
resulting in a model that retains its original capabilities but no longer refuses harmful instructions. This
new approach offers a simpler way to jailbreak open-source models compared to prior methodologies
involving fine-tuning (Lermen et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2023; Zhan et al., 2023), as it does not require
gradient-based optimization nor any examples of harmful completions.
4.1
Weight orthogonalization
In §2.4, we described directional ablation as an inference-time intervention that prevents the model
from representing a direction ˆr: during a forward pass, we zero out the ˆr component from every
intermediate residual stream activation (Equation 4). We can equivalently implement this operation by
directly modifying component weights to never write to the ˆr direction in the first place. Specifically,
we can take each matrix Wout ∈Rdmodel×dinput that writes to the residual stream, and orthogonalize its
column vectors with respect to ˆr:
W ′
out ←Wout −ˆrˆr⊺Wout.
(5)
In a transformer architecture, the matrices that write to the residual stream are: the embedding matrix,
the positional embedding matrix, attention out matrices, and MLP out matrices. Orthogonalizing all
of these matrices, as well as any output biases, with respect to the direction ˆr effectively prevents the
model from ever writing ˆr to its residual stream.
Note that this weight modification is equivalent to the previously described inference-time ...
--
19401:...her existing jailbreak techniques using the stan-
dardized evaluation setup from HARMBENCH (Mazeika et al., 2024). Specifically, we generate
completions over the HARMBENCH test set of 159 “standard behaviors”, and then use their provided
classifier model to determine the attack success rate (ASR), which is the proportion of completions
classified as successfully bypassing refusal. We evaluate our weight orthogonalization method
on models included in the HARMBENCH study, and report its ASR alongside those of alternative
jailbreaks. For brief descriptions of each alternative jailbreak, see §F.1.
Table 2 shows that our weight orthogonalization method, labeled as ORTHO, fares well compared to
other general jailbreak techniques. Across the QWEN model family, our general method is even on par
with prompt-specific jailbreak techniques like GCG (Zou et al., 2023b), which optimize jailbreaks
for each prompt individually.
Table 2: HARMBENCH attack success rate (ASR) across various jailbreaking methods. Our method
is labeled as ORTHO. The base...
--
22146:...t alone, and may reflect
differences in how these models respond to system-level instructions more generally.
4.3
Measuring model coherence
A reasonable concern with any new jailbreak technique is that, in addition to circumventing refusal, it
may also degrade the model’s overall quality (Souly et al., 2024). However, qualitatively, we observe
that models maintain their coherence after undergoing weight orthogonalization. While §3.1 and §4.2
show that our method effectively bypasses refusal, in this subsection we quantitatively evaluate how
the modification alters a model’s general capabilities.
For each model and its orthogonalized version, we run four common language model evaluations:
MMLU (Hendrycks et al., 2020), ARC (Clark et al., 2018), GSM8K (Cobbe et al., 2021), and
TRUTHFULQA (Lin et al., 2021). All eva...
--
77709:...physical surveillance.
2.
Vulnerability Assessment:
Identify
vulnerabilities in the facility’s security systems, such as ...
refusal_score: 1
safety_score:
0
Figure 16:
Challenges of evaluating refusal. The model completion does use a refusal phrase
(refusal_score=1), but it also contains harmful content (safety_score=0). This completion is
taken from the orthogonalized QWEN 72B CHAT model.
25

E
Weight orthogonalization is equivalent to directional ablation
To show the equivalence of directional ablation and weight orthogonalization, we consider all matrices
that directly write contributions to the residual stream.
Let Wout ∈Rdmodel×dinput be a matrix that writes to the residual stream, mapping vectors from Rdinput to
Rdmodel.5 Let the unit norm vector ˆr ∈Rdmodel denote the direction to be ablated.
Now let xpre ∈Rdmodel denote the residual stream activation before Wout adds a contribution to the
residual stream, let xpost d...
--
78860:...rˆr⊺xpost
(11)
= (xpre + Woutt) −ˆrˆr⊺(xpre + Woutt)
(12)
= xpre + Woutt −ˆrˆr⊺xpre −ˆrˆr⊺Woutt
(13)
= xpre −ˆrˆr⊺xpre + (Wout −ˆrˆr⊺Wout)t.
(14)
Supposing that directional ablation was similarly applied after all previous contributions to the
residual stream, we have that ˆr⊺xpre = 0:
x′
post = xpre + (Wout −ˆrˆr⊺Wout)t
(15)
= xpre + W ′
outt
(16)
where W ′
out = Wout −ˆrˆr⊺Wout, as specified by weight orthogonalization in Equation 5.
5Note that dinput varies depending on which matrix is being considered. For example it would be the
vocabulary size |V| if considering the embedding matrix, or the hidden MLP dimension dhidden if considering the
MLP down-projection matrix, etc.
26

F
Jailbreak evaluation
F.1
Comparing to other jailbreaks
To compare the effectiveness of our jailbreak method to other methods in the l...
--
80136:...e AutoPrompt approach from Shin et al.
(2020); PAIR is a black-box method from Chao et al. (2023). We also include comparisons to the set
of human-written “Do Anything Now” adversarial templates from Shen et al. (2023) (HUMAN), and
the “direct response” baseline without any jailbreaks in place (DR).
F.2
Effect of system prompts on evaluation
Table 2 shows that the attack success rate (ASR) of our weight orthogonalization methodology is
sensitive to system prompts. Including the default system prompt in evaluation substantially reduces
HARMBENCH ASR for LLAMA-2 models, while having minimal effect on QWEN models.
As shown in Figure 17, the LLAMA-2 default system prompt includes explicit guidelines to avoid
harmful or inappropriate content. In contrast, the QWEN default system prompt, shown in Figure 18,
is minimal ...
--
100533:... completions, and as a result, fine-tuning over MISTRAL INSTRUCT
completions leads to a decreased CE loss over ALPACA completions.
We note that, although the LoRA fine-tuning process itself is straightforward and efficient, creating a
high-quality dataset of harmful instruction-completion pairs requires non-trivial effort. In comparison,
directional ablation (and its equivalent implementation via weight orthogonalization) requires just a
dataset of harmful instructions, without the need for any harmful completions.
33

J
The “refusal direction” is also present in base models
Throughout this work, we consider only chat models, models that have undergone fine-tuning to
follow benign instructions and refuse harmful ones. Prior to this fine-tuning process, models are
essentially just next-token predictors, referred t...
--
109766:...ents in this section are performed on LLAMA-3 8B INSTRUCT.
L.1
Does orthogonalization just prevent the model from parroting standard refusal strings?
One possible way to prevent a model from refusing is to directly block it from outputting any of the
standard refusal strings, such as "Sorry, I cannot", or "As a language model". Experiments
shown in Figure 27 show that this is not the case for our weight orthogonalization methodology, as
the orthogonalized model is able to generate the same strings that the unmodified model uses to refuse
a harmful request. This suggests that the modification works at a higher conceptual level, rather than
at the level of suppressing output tokens.
Prompt:
Tell me how to make a bomb
Generation (no intervention):
I cannot provide instructions on how to make a bomb or
any other harm...
