warning: The `fitz` API is deprecated and will be removed in future. Use `import pymupdf` instead.
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.04213
Type: PDF
Pattern: surprising|does not|not predict|we find that (26 matches in 85075 chars)

--- Content ---

34:Does Localization Inform Editing? Surprising
Differences in Causality-Based Localization vs.
Knowledge Editing in Language Models
Peter Hase1,2
Mohit Bansal2
Been Kim1
Asma Ghandeharioun1
1Google Research
2UNC Chapel Hill
{peter, mbansal}@cs.unc.edu
{beenkim, aghandeharioun}@google.com
Abstract
Language models learn a great quantity of factual information during pretraining,
and recent work localizes this information to specific model weights like mid-layer
MLP weights [21]. In this paper, we find that we can change how a fact is stored
in a model by editing weights that are in a different location than where existing
methods suggest that the fact is stored. This is surprising because we would
expect that localizing facts to specific model parameters would tell us where to
manipulate knowledge in models, and this assumption has motivated past work on
model editing methods. Specifically, we show that localization conclusions from
representation denoising (also known as Ca...
--
1481:...work relies
on Causal Tracing to select which model layers to edit [21, 22]. Next, we consider
several variants of the editing problem, including erasing and amplifying facts.
For one of our editing problems, editing performance does relate to localization
results from representation denoising, but we find that which layer we edit is a
far better predictor of performance. Our results suggest, counterintuitively, that
better mechanistic understanding of how pretrained language models work may
not always translate to insights about how to best change their behavior.1
1
Introduction
Language models learn a v...
--
3730:...esentations, and editing is done by treating MLP weights as linear associative memories and inject-
ing new key-value memories into the weights. Meng et al. [21, 22] choose to edit early MLP layer(s)
based on results from Causal Tracing showing the largest causal effects on average in early layers.
Surprisingly, the assumption that one should change the knowledge in a model by editing the
weights where it is stored turns out to be false. In fact, localization results from Causal Tracing
are statistically uncorrelated with the success of an edit injecting a new fact into MLP weights.
Using the CounterFac...
--
4425:... a substantial fraction of factual knowledge stored outside of the range of layers edited by
ROME/MEMIT (see Fig. 1), (2) the correlation between Causal Tracing results and edit success is near
zero (for several editing methods including ROME, MEMIT, and Adam-based finetuning). We note
that this is surprising largely because ROME and MEMIT do work well for editing facts, in spite of
Causal Tracing often suggesting knowledge is stored elsewhere than early-to-mid-layer MLP weights.
ROME Edit Layer
MEMIT Edit Layers
0
50
100
150
200
1
4
8
12
16
20
24
28
Layer in GPT-J where Causal Tracing effects peak
Num....
--
5656:...get, or objective
used in the editing problem. One variant we
introduce, called Fact Forcing, is designed to
match Causal Tracing along these three factors.
Specifically, Fact Forcing uses a noised input
and involves maximizing the probability of the
correct target output, just like Causal Tracing.
We find that tracing results are related to edit
success for Fact Forcing. However, even for
this variant, it is still better to ignore the tracing
results and always choose an early-to-mid-layer
MLP weight for editing.
We conclude that,
although Causal Tracing is a reasonable
localization method that has yielded insight
into how models store factual information, this
insight does not actually indicate which model
layers we should edit in order to manipulate
what facts are stored in language models.
To summarize, our conclusions are as follows:
1. We find that model edit success is essentially unrelated to where factual information is stored in
models, as measured by Causal Tracing. Robustness experiments generalize this result across
causal localization methods, editing methods, editing metrics, models, and datasets.
2. To reconnect localization with ed...
--
6944:...e, Fact Amplification, and Fact Forcing.
3. Edit success and tracing effects correlate best in the Fact Forcing setting. However, tracing effects
explain only a small fraction of the variance in editing performance, while the choice of edit layer
is a much more important factor. This suggests that, surprisingly, localization insights from Causal
Tracing are not useful for choosing which model layer to edit.
2
Related Work
Localization. A long line of work aims to interpret what certain hidden representations represent, or,
in the reverse direction, to understand how a given concept is represented in a m...
--
21685:...(details in Appendix A). Our final sample size is n = 652.
4.3
Experiment Results
We present results in two ways. First, in Fig. 4, we show Rewrite Score as a function of the
(fractional) tracing effect. The red dotted line shows a hypothetical perfect relationship between
tracing and edit success. Surprisingly, there is not a positive relationship but a negative relationship
between the rewrite score and the tracing effect (linear correlation of ρ = −0.13; p <1e−3). This
seems to fully invalidate the assumption that editing should be most effective when it occurs at a
layer where information is stored ...
--
23267:...t to the model raises the R2 only to 94.8%. This
means that the tracing effect is able to explain only 0.1% of the variance in edit success when
accounting for the choice of edit layer. These results suggest that the tracing effect is essentially
unrelated to the success of model editing.
This is a surprising conclusion, and it naturally raises the question of why applying ROME at layer 6
works well in the first place (see average rewrite, paraphrase, and neighborhood scores across layers
in Appendix Fig. 7). We suggest a possible answer to this question in Sec. 6.
6

Editing Problem Variants
Error Inje...
--
[14 more matches not shown]
